Week 1

Group formed. I initialised the Github repo and created several branches for my team (frontend, design, df-playground). We discussed with the tech-stack that we are going to use and the good practices to follow (TDD, feature-branch). Together with Yifan, we initialised the React app for our frontend. We are waiting for the maintainer role to be added to our team so that we can add CI integrations into our repo for further development.

Week 2

We re-designed our tech architecture and decided the critical points for our proposal. I drew the architecture diagram and wrote the tech paragraph in the proposal. Besides, we started to learn about DialogFlow. I set up the CircleCI pipeline for the project.

Week 3

I set up the Pivotal Web Service for our deployment. Together with Yifan, I added the Dialogflow Web Demo to our frontend and deployed online. After that, I added configuration in CircleCI to automate frontend test, build and deployment.

Week 4

Instead of DialogFlow's Web Demo, we decided to build our frontend. According to our original architectural design, we wanted our frontend to communicate with DialogFlow directly. To achieve that, I built up the /auth API in our backend with Wenxiao and Minjie, and the logic layer in our frontend. Then I did the integration test and adjusted our CI configuration to deploy the backend server. I also set up the Messenger webhook to trigger our bot from Messenger.

Week 5

I built a spider bot to scrape data from handbook. Migrated the communication part from frontend to our backend.

Week 6

After a discussion with Aso, we decided to build our own machine learning model. Started doing research on existing models/modules and potential solutions.

Week 7

Scraped more data from stackoverflow and stored them into a mongodb database, for my teammates to train our machine learning model. Setup a context switcher in our frontend.

Week 8

Integrated our machine learning models into our backend. Wrote about technical parts in the report.

Week 9

Final integration test, product delivery and preparation slides for the demo session. Wrote deployment instruction in the report and README.md
