No access to assignmentHello,Professor Rachid:When I enter the home page of COMP9311, I cann't open the link of assignment 1 use the link, which locates the top right corne, it suggests I have no access.However, I could enter and open the assignment using the Assignment Menu in left menu navigation bar, is there anything wrong?
Does anyone have any thoughts on the below entity/attribute structure before I start defining relationships?:myPhotos.net database:User Accounts:email (as username)passwordfirst namelast nameregistration datepersonal websitegenderbirthdaygroup managementContacts:usernameyour contact (via username)your contact (via first &amp; last name)Photo Details:photo id (unique to the photo)username of uploaderphoto titledescriptionfile sizetechnical description (optional info stored here)associated thumbnailsafety level (under 18 etc)privacy (public or private)tagsPhoto Ratings:photo idratingusername of ratingComments:photo idcomment usernamecomment timestampcomment threadcomment thread usernamecomment thread timestampCollections:album idphoto idphoto sort numberkey photo of collectionSimilar tag:tagssimilar tagsGroups:group idgroup titlemember usernamegroup mode (private etc)albumsthread titlecommentcomment usernamecomment timestamp
Early design, ER model (16/08/2018)Any feedback will be appreciatedThank you very much
Really need Help to improve this ER diagram!This is the first version of my myphotos.net. Thanks to Rui Mu, Yuhao Qi and Siyang Huang, without whom I cannot conclude the relationship between entities properly.However, there are still some problems that need to be fixed, that's why I seek help in our forum.First of all, we have a disagreement on the role contacts play in our ER diagram. I insist that we do not really have to generate a unique id for every contract which may lead to redundancy, and this is the reason that the contact entity does not inherit from person entity.Second, users in our system could reply to each other's comments over and over again. Although I use posted time instead of posted date as well as an author as the primary key of comments, I am still confused about if I should generate a unique (random or combined with other meaningful attributes) for every comment.Third, as we can see in our assignment description, serval users can add photos in one exactly 'public' photo collection. How can this be presented in our ER diagram? Should we add an additional relationship between the user entity and photo collection?Finally, if you find some mistake among entities, relations, or attributes, plz post here.Thank you all very much. Hope to receive your feedback.
Are there any good ER-model design tools could be advised?Hello, everyone:Are there any good ER-model design tools could be advised? Navicat? Excel?Viso? Lucidchart? Any others?Best WishesRui
Still, need help to improve 'myPhoto.net' v0.0.2Thanks to those who reply to my last post, which provides me with a bunch of good ideas.Now 'myPhoto.net' 0.0.2 has released!.Changelog:All notable changes to this project will be documented here.[0.0.2] - 2018-08-15Added- Add \'personal Website\' and \'portrait\' attributes on User entity- Add derived attribute 'sum of marks' on Photo entity.- Add unique 'comment id' attribute on Comment to differ every comment.Changed- Comment now become a relationship between the User entity and the photo entity with an attribute \'reply\' which indicates the comments it replying to.Removed- Remove \'post\' and \'reply\' relation between the User entity and the photo entity which may lead to redundancy.There are still many drawbacks existing in this diagram that need to be improved. Do not hesitate to leave your feedback here.
ERD Modelling ToolFor anyone who's looking for a good way to create ERDs, I recommend trying draw.io.It's free to useYou don't need to create an accountYou can use it from your browserThere are also desktop versions for Windows, macOS, Linux(deb, rpm and AppImage) and ChromeOSit's available in many different languages
Hello Everyone,Below is my first draft ERD. Please let me know if you have any feedback.Entities and AttributesRelationshipsRelationship DescriptionsOne user uploads zero or many photosone photo is uploaded by one and only one userone user rates zero or many photosOne photo has ratings from zero or many users* user ratings include a scoreone user can comment one zero or many photosone photo can have comments from zero or many users* Comments have a parent comments to allow us to have a tree of comments and replies* Comments also have a date and some textone user owns zero or many collectionsone collection is owned by one and only one userone collection has one or many photosone photo is part of zero or many collections* a photo in a collection may be given an orderone collection has one and only one key photoone photo is key in zero or many collectionsone group has one or many collectionsone collection is included in zero or many groups?one person has zero or many person contactsone person is a contact for zero or many usersone group is managed by one and only one usera user managed zero or many groupsone group has one or many user membersone user is a member of zero or many groupsone group has comments from zero or many usersone user can comment in zero or many groups* Comments have a parent comments to allow us to have a tree of comments and replies* Comments also have a data and some text
hi all :this is my ER module
Hi, classmates. This is our ER module.Regards, Ran Bai , Wenxun Peng
Hi, below is a ER model i tried to make with the given information. Any critique is welcomed. Thanks
Hi everyone,Here is an updated version of my model. Apart from the colour, the main think I've changed is adding a contact entity whichinherits from person.I'm not 100% sure this is valid with weak entities but the way the assignment is worded strongly suggests to me that thereshould be some inheritance with the person/user/contact entities. I sure contact is a weak entity because contacts arecompletely managed by users and don't many sense without users.The other thing that I'm not 100% about is that the person entity has email address as a key which would be inherited bythe weak contact entity. Not really sure how to solve this.Any comments or suggestions would be more than welcome.edit 1:removed email address primary key from person and added an id primary key to user.Updated the user/contact relationship to read:one contact has one and only one userone user has zero or many contact
Hi, everyone, this is my partially finished ER diagram and plz give some comments about the existing relationships.THANKS!
Hi everyone, this is my ERD. If there is anything problem ,feel free to comment my ERD. Thanks
Hi team,Below are my ER diagrams. Let me know if you have any feedback.Cheers,Trung
Dear all:This is my ER diagrams.Looking forward to your comments and feedback.
Dear all our classmates:This is our ER diagram made by Zhenmin Chen,Chen Yang,Minghao Liu. We are waiting for your comments and feedbacks. Thanks!
Hello guys,This is my ER diagram, please feel free to comment, thanks a lot!
Hi guys, here is my ER diagram, please comment if you have any idea that could improve this model, thanks a lot.
Hi guys,This is my ER diagrams, leave any comments or advice. Forgive me it's ugly...BTW, what tool do you use for making ER diagrams? This tool doesn't works as the way  we used in the class.
Hello everyone,Here's my ER diagram. Any feedback is very much appreciated.I think I missed one attribute on the consistsOf relationship between Photo and PhotoCollection. There should be an order attribute
Dear Class here is my model for entities and attributes subject to your criticism!
Dear Class this a preliminary model for relationships subject to your criticism!
Hey guys,Here my ER model for Stage 1. I have separated the photo record from the photo since in the requirements it states \'each photo is stored in the file system and a record about the photo is created\'. I have assumed that each photo created is stored into a filesystem which in turn generates the record. The attribute id for the entity Photos is a foreign key for the entity Record.Look forward to hearing any comments or suggestions.
Hi，everyone，this is my ER modelI tried to capture all the necessary information, but I knew I couldn't cover all the information. If you find any mistakes, or suggestions, please feel free to point out. Any feedback will be appreciated.
Hi, these are my ER diagrams, hope for the comments form your guys.
Hi all classmates,This is my ER Diagram for this assignment, any advices are welcomed.Cheers,YAOYE(Jeren) LU
Could anybody help me how make the ER diagram more aesthetic?
These are the drafts of ER for assignmengt1i have some confuse about the tags and collections :  the collections entity is informal photo collection or other collection?i have to write it in paper  the clear version on its way~~
Hi,sir.I have a question about assignment 1:Should we  write functions for getting the real-world time when the inserting processes is happening and return it to a  value such as registered_date or when_posted ?
How can we know whether a photo is in JPEG or not?Will it be mentioned in its technical_details or description ?or just with a title like  '%.jpeg'?
I have not finished my assignment yet but when I tried to upload, I get the following error. May I know how I can solve this? ( I replaced my zID with z\d{7} )gs_extract: can't open file \'/import/kamen/1/cs9311/18s2.work/a1/give.spec\'classrun: error detected while scanning spec files for assignment \'a1\'login: z\d{7}class: cs9311last system error: No such file or directoryNO submission made.
dear professor :I noticed that you gave an attribute named \'photo\' which represented portrait of a user in ER module .so is it the same as the attribute \'photo\' which people own or I should create a new table named \'portrait\' ?
Dear Professor Hamadi,I have some questions about your assignment. I had discussed them with one of our tutors and figured out some, but there was still a bit left that had to bother you.1st, How can we name a trinary relationship? I.e. the relationship among photo, user, and tags. Should we use formal named rules printed on our assignment description, e.g photos_have_tags_by_users or just users_tag_photos? I do think the latter could be better as it's shorter and never miss any key information, although it disobeys the formal grammar.2nd, I notice that Collection entity is total participation in the inheritance relationship, which means when we insert a Collection instance, we have to check whether it is a User_Collection or a Group_Collection. So whether we need to implement a trigger to imply this process, or the only thing we should do is to never insert into Collection without inserting into its child class?3rd, I also notice that some 1:n relationship cannot be mapped as a passive form, i.e 'Key' relation between photos and collections, and some n:m relationship is in noun form, i.e. 'member' relationship between users and groups. Do the formal named rules still work here, e.g users_member_groups? Or we could choose whatever that is meaningful, like users_in_groups?Hope to receive your feedback!Best wishes,Xin Li
Questions about domainDear Professor Hamadi,Questions about domain: does psql support case-sensitive input? how can we create domain that obay the following rule?6~16char，including at least two types of digits, letter(case-sensitive), or symbols.I search some solutions on the internet. is this regular expression ok?CREATE EXTENSION citext;CREATE DOMAIN email AS citext CHECK ( value ~ '^[a-zA-Z0-9.!#$%&amp;''*+/=?^_`{|}~-]+@[a-zA-Z0-9](?:[a-zA-Z0-9-]{0,61}[a-zA-Z0-9])?(?:\.[a-zA-Z0-9](?:[a-zA-Z0-9-]{0,61}[a-zA-Z0-9])?)*$' );
Hello,Can you please help with the two questions below with regards to People table:1. Is attribute \'given names\' a multi-valued attribute or we can treat it as atomic? The name is plural but the circle line is not doubled...2. In the requirement it says \'derived (computed) attributes should not be included in the SQL schema\' , however the task is to make attribute \'Displayed name\' as a sum of family and given names by default. Isn't it computed? Also I don't believe we are supposed to use triggers and rules in this assignment to implement this... Please clarify this point.Thanks in advance,Oleg
Hello,I am not sure about two questions. Can you help me?1. The user has a photo which is a portrait. Can you tell me whether the portrait must be in 'JPEG ' format or all the photo should be in 'JPEG' format? Do we need to add this constraint in our schema?2. The file size of a photo is stored as a whole number of KB. Do we need to constrain the file size as a string end with KB or just regard the file size as an integer?Thanks a lot,Harry
Hi, in the comments on photos, there is a word:\' the system will automatically provide the date it was uploaded\'So does that mean the date uploaded cannot be none or mean it can be none because the system will provide one automatically?Thank you.
Hi, in requirement said \'each time a photo is tagged, the frequency counter for that tag is incrementedDoes it has to implement by a trigger?Thank you.
Hi. Should I add \'id\' as primary key in all tables?
In the requirement, the task asks us to use ER-style mapping all the time, but when it comes to a disjoint relation, ER-mapping cannot be used, Mr Hamadi also said that in recordings.so can I use single-table mapping to handle it?
Hello, do we have to address the requirement, \'all people have a name for the system to display them as; users may provide such a name for themselves; if no name is supplied, myPhotos.net will form a name from the family- and given-names\'.Thank you in advance.
Can you clarify the link between \'Photo\' and \'Discussion\'? It reads now that a photo can have zero or one discussion related to its photo, which makes sense. The other direction is a discussion is about zero or many photos, which I do not understand. So one can create comments (thus Discussion thread) that has nothing to do with any of the photos? Also, one can create a comment (thus discussion thread) that makes comments on multiple photos in one comment? Thank you.
Can I choose implementation of Collection - User Collection - Group Collection as many tables or should I do it as one table?
\'Every group must have at least one member (the owner is automatically a member\'regarding the above statement, is this a requirement for the database or will it be managed by the program. In class the Professor mentioned that some requirements are for the program that will use this database.If this is indeed a constraint, please suggest what to use here.
Hi I have a question about how can we save a file as filename and then submit it , how the quires are saved as there have any command or these are automatically saved in database ?
Hi i want to ask that as in assignment, it is asked that mapping is done from ER diagrams to relational schema and follow the approach as in lecture notes on ER to relational mapping. so is it only to create tables for each entity of ER diagram or  also have to show the relationship within each other.
Dear professor. I collect some unclear points on requirements from myself and several friends.Though I read posts here before I wrote these, there still might be some questions that you have answered in previous posts. Sorry for that.Here are the questions:Users and People:is application responsible for date_registered?is application responsible for “the display_name-forming”Photos: is application responsible for Photos_file_size?Comment: who is responsibile for “each discussion is created when its first message is posted”? (DB/Application)Contact Lists and Groups, do we need to check:group and contact_list not empty?contact_list are created in conjunction with the first membergroup -– the owner is automatically a member
Hi professor,When I tested my schema file on the cse system, I noticed that it also generated some sequences, but I only use \'create domain\' and \'create table\' in my schema file. So why does it generate these sequences? Does it matter?Thank you!
Can we make multiple submissions or only a single submission?
hii professorcan i upload my file as a .txt file after testing on my system. just like the template mentioned in assignment.thank you
Hi Professor,Can you clarify your instruction:a collection of comments on one photo needs no title; the discussion is associated with the photo being commented ondiscussions under a group will have a title and will be associated the groupI interpret this as “a collection of comments” = Discussion. Discussion on a photo does not need to have a title. But if a Group is related to that Discussion, then Discussion must have a title. Do you want us to implement this at this stage or is this something that we will enforce later?Thank you.
For strings that we are not sure whether we should use text or varchar(N), do we lose points if we use the wrong in automarking? For example, the instruction seems to say if there is no specific mention of varchar(N), then use text. But password does not have any specific instruction, so we should use text, but who uses a password longer than 50 characters anyways?
For the password should we provide any min/max length constraints?ThanksJack
Hi professor, I want to check my assignment on lab computers. At what time can i come in lab on Friday. As, these programs are not giving output on my personal computer.
I noticed that in the ER overview there is a many-to-one relationship between Photos and Discussions but this relationship is not represented in the ER diagram on Photos. Should we include this relationship in our Photos table?
Hello Professor,I had question regarding the naming convention as in the case of person entity. Will we name the attribute as familyName or family_name in the schema for the system to auto check?
Regarding Many to Many relationships, ER style suggests we have separate tables with FK references.Please confirm if such tables should have 1.a seperate PK, 2.composite PK of the FKs 3. or no PK neededRegards,Ghazali
Hello Professor, about this requirement\' if no name is supplied, myPhotos.net will form a name from the family- and given-names \', Do we need to achieve this function? But how?
Hi Prof,I have submitted my work, but I tried to load the schema using the instruction in the assignment \'What To Do Now\'to prevent 3 marks \'administrative penalty\' we need to run below without any error in grieg server, but I got error.%dropdb a1%createdb a1%psql ass1 -f a1.sql &lt;----------- shoudlnt this be \'%psql a1 -f a1.sql\'? becuase I got an error in this%psql a1my error was:psql: FATAL: database \'ass1\' does not exitLet me know if I did anythign wrong, Thanks
Hi, I have a question about Photos .'the system will automatically provide the date it was uploaded' what does this mean?Should i set the uploaded time as timestamp? Or is it provided by applications then i can just set it as date?
Hi,What data type should we use for date? The assignment description has 'date' and 'timestamp'.
Hi, the relationship between 2 tables \'Discussions\' and \'Comments\' is a 1-to-many relationship and both of them are totally participate in the relationship. Should we display the total participation of \'Discussions\' by putting a foreign key referencing to \'Comments\' in it?
Since the datetype of id in every entity table is serial, when we want to reference the id as foreign key, should we use \'serial\'or\'integer\'?And when we want to use the id in a relation table,should we use \'serial\'or\'integer\'??
Hi, looking at the contact list requirement where the contact list can't be empty and the owner must be the first member, do we need to insert the owner as an extra field into the 'member' table or can we say that the contact list is not empty because it has an owner?
After I enter psql a1 -f a1.sql on grieg, there is an error. It shows my URLValue and all my relations do not exist.I can not find the error...
Just wondering, for the unique constraint, are there instances where we should assume based on common sense? eg. for email and website
Hi, I'm not sure if this is too late, I ran into some problems when submitting the file, is it possible to submit through webcms here?
hi professor,could you please tell me when is the mid term test of 9311?
hello sir,can you please tell me when will you release marks of assignment 1
hello professor,when will you release the marks of 1st assignment..??
May I ask some question here?1. Are all people in person table editors or only person who relates to editor in proceeding table can be treated as editor?2. What's the difference between inproceeding  and proceeding? Does inproceeding table contains all paper that needed to be handled?3. Is the editor here means author?4. What does the table RelationPersonInProceeding stands for? Does it reflect the relationship between authors (maybe editor here) and papers?5. How can we judge whether an editor issue a paper or not? Should we store all issued paper in the proceeding table?Hope to receive your comments.
very basic ER graph
May I know if everyone in Person is an author? or they need to author at least one paper to gain the title? Thank you.
hello professorplease answer my doubts:-Here are some of my questions.1. What is publication and proceeding here? Their differences.2. What is the relation between author and co author? Means whether set of authors writr paper or write a proceeding?3. Is author and editor same? Or editor is the person who only edits?4.Papers in the question means?thanku
Do we have to match the case of the column names in the view definitions?For example, for the first view, we've been given this:CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW Q1(Name) AS ...Do we need to make sure that the column is returned as Name and not name?
Hi there, for Q18 and 19, it asks us to output the min, average and max count per author / proceeding. Is this for the collect data base, meaning we would only output one row of three values for the total
Hi there,for question 3:\'List all the editors that have authored a paper in the proceeding that they have edited.\'do you mean finding the editors of some papers who are the authors at the same time?
For Q12, do we include the Richards in the output? Or just the authors linked(direct/indirect) to Richards?
Hi Professor,I have some questions about this assignment, could you please help me solve these problems? Thank you.1.In question 13, should the result also include the papers that are not published in any database?2.In question 18 and 19, the output precision of the average value?3. In some questions, there is no requirement of the order of the result. But in some case, when I use other views to generate the target view, the order of elements may change, so will this influence the assignment result?Thank you very much, professor.
Hi professor,Can I ask a question? In question 13, we are told to query the year of the publication, but what if an author only has inproceedings but not proceedings. Should we consider this situation as publications of unknow year or just don't output this kind of data?Thanks a lot.
Hi professor,I found there are some different people have the same name.When I answer the questions, should I consider this?For example, Q10, when I count the total number of co-authors, do I need to consider the co-author who has the same name as main author?
Hi professor,For Q6, are all papers in Proceeding published? I find some data in the Proceeding table  has no EditorId and ISBN, but has a Year.
Hi professor, I want to know about assignment question 5 as there is asked about the title of all papers authored by an author with last name \'clark\'  as there is no attribute is provided about authors and no last name attribute.Are we have to create other relation with last name? and what is the meaning of author there? thank you
Hi professor,Should we consider the situation that two person have exactly the same name but their personids are different? Thank you.
HI professor, Does the triggers have prescriptive names? or any names are accepted？
Hello mentors / professor,There is a person in the database with name 'C. Richard Snow'. Is Richard a part of his first name? Should we take him into consideration for question 11 and 12 as other people with simple name Richard?Thanks for your advice,Oleg
Hello Professor,Can we add extra views to solve the problems properly?
Hello mentors / professor,In question 13 we need to work with year information. The task says \'If none of their publications have year information, the word \'unknown\' should be output for both first and last years of their publications.\'. However I checked the Proceeding table and all records have year information... Is this correct? We won't see \'unknown\' based on the current input...This brings the following question: will the submission be tested with the given input or new input?Thanks,Oleg
Hello mentors / professor,There are some proceedings without editor information. Should we include them in the output of question 15? If yes, what should be shown in the editor name field?Thank you,Oleg
Hi professor,Could you please explain the meaning of q20?There are only two ids in  RelationPersonInProceeding table.What do you mean that update or insert of a paper from an author that is also the editor of the proceeding in which the paper has published?
Hi professor,How can we get the name of author from Person table as there is no common attribute between Person and Inproceeding table in Q5 and what is the uses of Series table. thank you
Hi Professor,In Q22, Do you mean update the  proceedingId in  InProceeding table?
Hello professor,In Q13, i needed some clarification:1) Number of publications are total number proceedingids linked with that person id correct?2) If a person has an inproceedingid but no proceedingid that means his paper is not published.3) If a person has no proceedingid do we need to display count as 0 or omit the person4) if a person has no proceedingid and we do not omit the person, the year information inherently becomes UNKNOWN in both first year and last year.Correct me if im wrong.ThanksUjjwal
Hi professor,1.I have a question about Q15. Based on previous posts, EditorId and PublisherId cannot be null, but how about Year attribute? Do we need to include proceedings without Year for Q15?2.For Q13 and Q17, do we need to output all author or just those who have published a paper?
Hello Professor, how can we know if a paper is published or not? Is it depending on the value of ISBN in table Proceeding?Thank you
Hi professor and tutors，Can you explain Q18 and Q19 ? The questions have been brought up before, but remained unexplained. So I asked again...what's the difference between Publication and Proceeding?
Hi professor, for the Q14 'either contain the word or substring \'data\'', it means for all the paper titles contains 'data' should be listed such as \'Metadata\',' Data ' ,' Systemdata ' .etc.
Hi professor, for the Q12,  if an author named 'Richard A001' co-authored with 'Richard B001', and an author named 'John C001' co-authored with 'Richard A001', in this case, we should list all three author like:Richard A001Richard B001John C001is it correct?
Hello, professor, for the Q11, could you give more details about 'never co-authored with any co-author of Richard (i.e. Richard is the author's first name), nor co-authored with Richard himself.'For example, the records like the following:AuthorCo-AuthorPaperA-001B-001Paper001B-001Richard 001Paper002Richard001Paper003C-001Paper004D-001E-001Paper005In this case, which one of the following outputs is correct?Output 1:A-001 ( A-001 indirectly co-authored with Richard 001)C-001D-001E-001Output 2:C-001D-001E-001Therefore, which one is correct?Best Wishes.
Hello, professor, for the Q9 : Find all the author names that never co-author (i.e., always published a paper as a sole author).In this case, should we except the author names that co-author in the un-published papersFor exampleAuthorCo-authorPaperA-001B-001PublishedC-001D-001Un-PublishedC-001PublishedE-001PublishedThe output result isC-001E-001Is it correct?Best Wishes
Hi Professor,Am confused about the triggers, given insert only uses NEW value and update has old and new, are we assuming the first table RelationPersonInProceeding has existing values or is empty? Do we use a select statement within the trigger or is the assume views from Q1-19 already existant so we can call from there?Thank you!
Hi mentors / professor,Q21 says \'Create a trigger on Proceeding to check and disallow any insert or update of a proceeding....\'. A proceeding is unique and appears only once in the \'Proceeding\' table. What do you mean by insert in this question?Thanks,Oleg
Hi professorDo we need to order the name in the first few queries or just let it as the origin. Thank you~
Hi ProfessorShould we use the distinct to avoid the same name occurs twice or more?in these questions regarding output nameThank youList all the editors.create or replace view Q1(Name) as ...List all the editors that have authored a paper.create or replace view Q2(Name) as ...
hi professor,for Q18 ,should we consider authors that have no publication?In other word,should the minpub be 0 or 1?
Hi ProfessorCan same papers appear more than one time in Proceeding Table.Thank you.
Hello Professor,For Question 11, if some Richard is the author, and he does not co-authored with any other Richard or Richard's co-author, is this true in Q11's situation?Thank you.
Hello Professor,For Question 7, Find the most common publisher(s) that has published the maximum total number of papers in the database.Is that mean I have to count each paper from InProceeding Table to find the maximum total number of papers or just count from each paper from Proceeding Table.Thank you.
Hello,  professor, For Q3, 'List all the editors that have authored a paper in the proceeding that they have edited.'we should focus on the editor who have authored only a paper (one paper) ? or more than one paper?For example:EditorAuthorPaperProceedingA-001A-001Paper001Proceeding001A-001A-001Paper002Proceeding001A-002A-002Paper003Proceeding002Output1A-001A-002Output2A-002Which one is correct?
Hello, professor , For Q21, Q22 and Q3...are there any conflicts between Q21/Q22 and Q3....From the Q21/Q22, If an author could not be an editor of the proceeding in which the author wrote a paper.  Moreover,  an editor could not be an author of papers which the editor edited.......However, From the Q3, we list all the editors also as an author in the papers which they edited.......Could you give me more details about Q21/Q22...Best Wishes.
question for Q8 expression:i want to know   should i use one record to show all names  which coauthor  the same papers?or    i just use records(rows)   to show their name?
To display 'unknown' instead of null. Need some help.Example from Q13, personId 166 has two unpublished papers thus his firstYear and lastYear showup as null.I am however unable to display 'unknown' instead of the null.I've tried the following two approaches and both still result in [null] instead of 'unknown'1) select COALESCE(pr.year,'unknown') as LastYear from ...2) select CASE  WHEN null THEN 'unknkown' ELSE pr.year END as FirstYear from ...looking forward to your feedback
Hi Dr.Hamadi, Could you please let me know if we are allowed to create views other than the ones that are mentioned in the description.. like distinctpersonid(personid) which could then be used in view Q1(Name) ? The description says we can create function or PLpgSQL when needed but nothing is said abt creating new views.
Hello can you please clarify question 22 for me:22. Create a trigger on InProceeding to check and disallow any insert or update of a proceeding in the InProceeding table with an editor of the proceeding that is also the author of at least one of the papers in the proceeding.Does this mean when a new tuple is added to InProceeding, we need to check if the editor that corresponds with the proceedingid has authored ANY of the papers attached to that proceedingid? Or are we only checking if the editor has authored the newly added paper?Also the trigger questions state we need to disallow certain inserts/updates. For these do you want for an exception to be raised or should we just silently not process the change?
Dear Professor,When we create the views, do we only include only attribute that is in the bracket or can we have that attribute and other attributes as well?Example: Question 1: Beside the Name attribute, can we have other attributes in the select query after \'as\' too?Thanks,Trung.create or replace view Q1(Name) as ...
Dear Professor,In regards to the \'number of publications\' (in Question 13, 18 &amp; 19), it this the number of papers published or the number of proceedings that an author has a paper (inproceeding) in?An example, if author A has 2 papers (i.e 2 inproceedings) in the same proceeding. Does that count as two publications or one publication?Thanks,Trung.
Dear Professor,I have a question about Q15. From the insert example there are some row with null in EditorID column.What should output in EditorName Column will be if EditorID is null?Thanks.
Can we rephrase Q11 to the following:set A = all authorsset B = all co-authors of 'Richard'set C = all author named 'Richard'the requirement is set D = A - (B U C) (difference of A and (B union C))
In Q5, is the word Clark case sensitive?
Dear professor,In Q1, should I list all the people in table person?In Q5,I am confusing with the concept author, since I have not see any describe about it in tables. Are author and editor same person?
I have read from some sources that in and intersect are very similar except for NULL and duplicate cases. So for this assignment particularly, which one should I use?
Hello, professor, For the situation: a person in database with the same name and different person_id..I suppose we need a clarification.I confused by the answers from https://webcms3.cse.unsw.edu.au/COMP9311/18s2/foru...For example:PersonIdEditor NameProceedingId1A-0010011A-0010022A-001003If we need list all the editor name:Output1:A-001A-001Output2:A-001Which one is correct?If we need list the count of proceeding for each editor:Output1:A-001               2A-001               1Output2:A-001               3Which one is correct?Best Wishes
Hey Everyone,Just asking if anyone has created a data file to test the assignment on that they don't mind sharing.And if this isn't the right place to ask, please direct me to the appropriate location.
Just to clarify, are we allowed to use previous views in the answers of proceeding ones. For example could we call and select from Q2 view in Q3 or do all questions have to be completely standalone?
Hello professor, I want to know about paper id as in Q8 we have to find the similer paper id which is written by different authors. To find the co-authors. thank you
Hi Professor,In regards to Q10, could you provide some guidance as to how to cater for an author which appears multiple times with other co-authors, I am confused with respect to the count.
#Q7 multiple maximum#Hi Prof,I guess there could be the same situation like Q8 where there is more than one publisher that is the most popular, do we need to consider this situation?Best regards,Jingwei
Hi. Would it be possible to provide the sample output for Q10. I understand the example that is in the question but it addresses the first part of the question, I am having problem in getting the output format for the second part of the question.
When I create a new view and create a new attribute in it, why when I use this attribute in another view, it always shows \'the column does not exist\'?for example, in Q8:create or replace view co_author asselect  rp1.PersonId as \'authorId\',count(rp1.PersonId) as \'paper_nb_of_person\'.......then I create another view:create or replace view co_author_most_paper asselect authorId as \'authorId\'from co_author.......when I run them in XTerm, the first view is OK, but when I run the second one, it shows column \'authorid\' does not existcould you tell me the reason?
In question 11 and 12, it asks for authors that coauthor with Richard but does that include Richard himself?  i.e. in question 12, should I see anyone with the name Richard in the output?
Hi professor,I wanna ask a question about Q15. Does the 'total' mean the total papers that an editor edits in a year or the total papers that an editor has ever edits?
Hi everyoneCan you  help me to understand the Q14?
Hi professor,Does it matter if the database raise a warning while marking the assignment?
The triggers, do they need a specific name that will be checked by the auto-marking system?
Can we submit a2.sql by the submit button on webcms3 instead of entering command on CSE Linux machine? (just like what we did in assignment 1)
In Q15, if the values for year and publisherid is null do we turn it to unknown like q13?
Hi professor,As for Q4, do we need to add 'DISTINCT' to filter the repetitive titles?Thank you.
Hi, Quick Question,Unless stated otherwise, do we assume that the output's are to be in alphabetical order, if the question is asking for Titles or Names??
Hi professor,For Q20, Q21, Q22, if the new tuple doesn't satisfy the requirements, we reject it. But what should we do when the old tuple already doesn't satisfy the requirements?For instance, for Q20, there exists data: author001 has authored inproceeding001, inproceeding001 is in proceeding001, and author001 has edited proceeding001, which means the editor of proceeding001 is also the author of inproceeding 001. In that case, if I want to change (author001, inproceeding001) to (author002, inproceeding001), should the trigger reject me?
Hi,For Q15 and Q19, should we consider Proceedings with no Papers?In the example database there is one proceeding with no papers, but it also has no editor and so is discounted for Q15. But for Q19 this means if we include it we get a minimum number of papers in a proceeding as 0, which does not make a lot of sense.Thanks.
For different individuals that share the same name, do we need to distinguish them?
Dear Professor,For Question 18, do we include the authors that have no papers that are not published in any proceeding.An example, author A has two papers P1 &amp; P2 but these two papers are in no proceeding (proceedingid is null).Author B has two papers P3, &amp; P4 which are in certain proceeding.So this author A has no publication (per definition of this question) and author B has 2 pubsSo which of the below is correct in this scenario:1. min = 0, average = 1, max = 2 (include both A, B in the statistics)2. min = 2, average = 2, max = 2 (we only include author B in the statistics)Similar for question 19, do we include in the statistics the proceeding that has no papers?Thanks,Trung.
Dear Professor,I was wondering for Q20, if we insert or update a paper in the RelationPersonInProceeding table from an author that is also the editor of the proceeding in which the paper has published, what should we return in the trigger?Return old or raise an exception?Thank you in advance!
Hi Professor, in Q11, is  C. Richard Snow's first name = Richard?
Hi, professor.In Q18,do we only need to count the number of publications which title contains \'data\'? Cause I saw the question is '....output the min,avg and max  per author for the database'?
Hi，professorWhen I upload my a2.sql to the grieg. The first view always fails to be created,but it is okay in my computer and I cannot find any errors. Could you tell me what's wrong?Regards
Dear professor,When we find people whose first name is Richard, do we have to be concerned about the case where some people might be named \'Richardson ....\'?Thanks,Trung.
Hi Professor,There are some questions which require the name of Authors/Co-authors.Given that only name is required, but multiple people can have same name, should the entry for name be repeated or kept distinct?
hi professor,when will you release the marks of 2nd assignment..??
Hi Professor,are sample solutions for Assignment 2 going to be released?
Hi. In solution for Q5 there is statement \'Left hand sides of both dependencies are keys for relation R8\'. So we should check each dependancy for each candidate key? So whenever a fd conform to any of candidate key a relation is in BCNF?
Hello,In Q3 part \'a\' (ii) the given solution isI think there is a mistake in condition Reader.name = Book.name since it does not make sense. Perhaps it should be Readings.reader = Reader.name, correct?Also would it be possible to use Theta Join expression instead of Product like this:Temp = Proj[Readings.book, Readings.reader] (Readings Join[book = Book.name, rating &lt; 2] Book Join[author = favAuthor, reader = Reader.name] Reader)Thank you,Oleg
Hi,Re sample solution 1, why is Offering a weak entity?Could we use this instead to describe the \'offerings\'?Thanks.
Hi, dear Rachid, can I know in the sample quiz_2 of 2017, why the solution lists the relation of 'Vistits', but not lists the relation of 'workIn'? As the relation between 'Patients' and 'Doctors' are n:n?
Hi, Rachid,In Q1(a),the solution of relational model is this format,but in our lecture, the  relational model is in this formatI want to know in the exam, which form we should follow in?
Hi, dear Rachid, can I know in the sample quiz_5 of 2017s2, how do we get the dependencies of (3)、（5）、（6）？Looking forward your reply, thank you.
i have a question about drawing E-R graph.     can   i separate the graph into two part    :  one for display the entity and its attributes and the other shows the relationships between those entity?  so that it will be clear.
Hi, dear Richid, can I know the benchmark of assessment of quiz in final? For example, in quiz_5 of 2017s2 sample, if  I ignore some details and do not write full  function dependencies according graph, but the rest logic and solution is correct,   so could I get any marks? Or get a little marks or most of marks?
Hi Mr Hamadi,May I ask when we answer the questions about BCNF or 3NF, can I use the way you used in class,or I have to follow the way showed in solution of Exam 2017? Because I find your ways is a little difference with the way of solution of sample.ThanksWeijun Feng
When drawing relational model, which type should we use? the underline (key) , arrow (foreign key)  thing  or the other one in this solution below?
Hi, can I know should we define the vary value ''rec''  first, like \'rec  record ;\'?
